# Gataca DID Method Specification
V0.2, Gataca

## Introduction
GATACA is a blockchain-based digital identity platform that provides Identity and Access Management (IAM) services using decentralized identifiers and Verifiable Credentials.

The new architecture inverts the fundamentals of authentication management by putting the user at the center of identity issuance and control. The innovation lies in the capability of users to obtain identity credentials from different issuers worldwide -including governmental credentials- in a standard digital format that everyone recognizes and trusts and to store and manage these credentials through a digital ID wallet.

Instead of hundreds of siloed and scattered identities, each servicing a specific purpose, users can now build a database of interoperable identity credentials that they can selectively share to authenticate securely in any digital service, both private and public, worldwide.

To achieve, Gataca uses the specifications provided by the W3C in [DID documents](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/) and [Verifiable Credentials documents](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/). Looking for interoperability between the different agents globally.

## Infrastructure
Our platform is based on a mobile identity portfolio, a set of APIs and controllers for multiple blockchain networks.

In fact, one of the main characteristics that differentiate Gataca from the rest of the players is that Gataca is agnostic to the blockchain network used. For gataca, leveraging a blockchain network is a mistake, and that's why we abstract that layer so that every third party can use the one that suits them best.

Actually, Gataca provides services to use Ethereum (Mainnet, Rinkeby, Robsten and private networks using Hyperledger Besu as a client), Hyperledger Fabric to private networks and Alastria.
In the roadmap are Corda, Bitcoin, LacChain, ...

## Overview
In this case, we provide Ethereum Smart Contract to read all DID documents we have in the DEV environment.
Gataca provides also a Chaincode to read about information deployed in HLF private networks.

To the resolver, we provide just Ethereum Smart Contracts, Gataca uses both Ethereum networks and in Alastria (Quorum).
Structure, is simple, it's just a mapping object which relates DIDs with states and public keys.
To access the info users does not need privileges but to write into the blockchain, (actually) just Gataca can do it. We control just smart contract creator can modify it.

## Specification
### Method DID Format
Gataca method follows the next guide
```
did                = "did:" method-name ":" method-specific-id
method-name        = "gatc"
method-specific-id = ^[a-km-zA-HJ-NP-Z1-9]{32}$
```
It's composed by 3 parts:
- **did**: Indicate it's a decentralized identifier
- **method-name**: Gataca uses *gatc* as his method identifier
- **identifier**: Identifier is a chain of 32 characters using base 58

### Operations
Gataca provide 4 basic operations to manage DIDs. Using Gataca platform a user could create a new DID with its public key, could read the preious DID generated by himself or created by others users and, finally, users could modify to suspend temporary one of their DIDs or revoke permanently (logical deletion).
#### Create
To create a new DID, users need to have access to Gataca Idenity (Identity wallet). Wallet generates a key pair associated to that DID, and it sends DID and public key to Gataca Backbone (middleware to communicate to DLTs). Private key would be stored in device secure storage.
#### Read
To read a DID, users need to consult to Gataca Backbone that DID. This access is free.
#### Suspend
To suspend a DID, users need to have privilege access to Gataca Backbone. Users could modify just their own DIDs. If the DID has been suspended, it cannot be read. To recover its value, user needs to re-activate it.
#### Revoke
To revoke a DID, users need to have privilege access to Gataca Backbone. Users could modify just their own DIDs. If the DID has been revoked, it cannot be read, and since that moment, it cannot be read or modified.

## Security Considerations
### Crypto algorithms
Gataca platform is prepare to use some different crypto algorithms, but by default, it uses Ed25519 crypto algorithm. This feature provide Gataca the functionality to change the algorithm dynamically, adapting the platform to new features or breaks. Actually, Ed25519, is one of the more secure and faster algorithms for digital signatures. Futhermore, Gataca can adapt their algorithms to new client needs.
### AuthNFactors
Gataca provides security mechanisms to ensure the device user is the same of the wallet owner. They use the same structure than  Verifiable Credentials, but Gataca distincts between them, because this kind of mechanisms just ensure the propietary, using challenges instead of store information about the user.
### Consents - Anonymous relationship
One of the main advantages using Gataca are consents. They are a data structure that provides evidences the user and the verifier consent the information sharing between them. With this kind of mechanisms user does not have to share his root DID, but he can use a new DID relationship to anonymize his data.

## Privacy Considerations
### DID-Relationship
Gataca users have a root DID that it's his global identifier, but they have other multiple DIDs, one by relation between user and each verifier. This architecure provides anonymity to the user, protecting his root DID for hackers and inference processes. Also, that is a good mechanisms to revoke a relationship.
### GDPR Compliance
Gataca is GDPR compliance. Gataca stores in DLTs just *public* information. It uses DLTs to provide integrity and resilency, of the relation DID - Public Keys. That provides the platform a trusted third party, maintaining user privacy.
